# bee-aware
1. Download node.js for your operating system: https://nodejs.org/en/download/
2. Pull the code from the main branch.
3. Type npm install in the terminal. 
4. Type npm run web to view the project! 

## Inspiration
The production of Bee Aware was inspired by our Biology teacher, who constantly taught us how important it was for us to reduce our carbon footprint, as every step taken mattered to help fight climate change. With this inspiration, we decided to create Bee Aware, in an effort to help others who are also dedicated to improving their lifestyle in order to reduce their carbon footprint and help stop climate change.
## What it does
Bee Aware allows users to learn more about their carbon footprint and how their every day habits can contribute to the acceleration of climate change. Not only does this app provide users with the education on carbon footprint and its effects, it also allows users to practice reducing their own carbon footprint. Every time the user uses the app, the app provides the user with a goal for them to complete on that day, for example, carpooling to school or office on that day. Users can personalize their goals so that the app can recommend certain things for the user to complete each day that is more centralized towards their lifestyle. Users can also calculate their carbon footprint to accurately view if their lifestyle has been getting better. 
## How we built it
We coded the app through the usage of mainly react-native, javascript, HTML, and CSS on VS code. First, we made a generic design plan for each screen we wanted on the app utilizing Photoshop. Then, from there, we created the basic outline for the navigation to each screen. Lastly, we coded each screen with the actual details after the navigation outline was finished and we added style to each of the pages. 
## Challenges we ran into
When programming, we ran into many challenges due to our lack of previous knowledge on react-native. For both of us, this was our first time coding an app using react-native. The majority of the bugs in our app came from trying to pass information from one screen to another. After researching more on react-native, and trying many different forms of code, we finally found the correct way to pass information. We also ran into challenges with navigation between pages, but we were able to figure it out by continuing to try different things until it worked.
## Accomplishments that we're proud of
Both of us are proud of being able to collaborate together effectively in producing an app that has multiple screens and completes our goal. Both of us ran into challenges of making the algorithm to calculate the carbon footprint in javascript and shuffling goals randomly work, but in the end, through strong dedication, we proudly accomplished these tasks. We are proud of how our app works and our ability to make a difference through this app.
## What we learned
Through this project, we learned the basics of using react-native and GitHub. We learned how to navigate between different pages in our app and create images in our app. We also learned more about javascript, html, and css since neither of us were very familiar with any of these languages before. We were able to learn how to create components in react-native, get input from the user, and pass information to different components. We also learned how to effectively style apps with CSS so that they appear user friendly. Additionally, we learned a lot about climate change and actions that we can do to reduce our carbon footprint and fight climate change. Lastly, we learned about how to collaborate on our app, using skills such as pushing and pulling from github. 
## What's next for Bee Aware
Next, we plan on moving Bee Aware to the App Store or Google Play Store so that more people have access to it. We also plan on making the app more of a game, where people can get points for completing goals, so that users feel more motivated to complete their daily goals.
